when you remove the inspection cover
you're going to look inside and you're
looking for the adjustment tab or strap
it isn't always going to be at six
o'clock or at the bottom of its travel
so that you can access it in that case
you are going to have to bar the engine
over or bump it over on the starter or
get it to move around so that you can
reach the adjuster most engine
manufacturers have an inspection hole in
the bottom of the bell housing that is
directly below the ring gear on the
flywheel and if you remove plug with
some type of pry bar be it a screwdriver
or a bar you can turn the engine over
until the adjuster becomes accessible
in order to change the clutch adjustment
we have to remove the lock strap so we
have to undo the holding bolt and take
the strap out once we remove the strap
with this style of clutch adjuster
we are going to have to install a clutch
adjusting tool the clutch adjusting tool
is used for leverage in order to move
this ring either clockwise or
counterclockwise turning it in a
clockwise direction will increase your
free pedal which is the most common
adjustment because as the clutch wears
and the disks wear the release bearing
moves toward the flywheel which would
move it towards the clutch fork and
you're going to lose your free play
between the clutch fork and the release
bearing once your tool is installed the
clutch must be fully depressed in order
to turn the adjusting ring that relieves
the spring pressure from the pressure
plate and allows this disc to turn
in order to turn the adjusting Locker
ring the clutch has to be fully
depressed so it must be all the way to
the floor in order to relieve the spring
pressure in the clutch to turn the
adjusting ring if you have an assistant
or the truck driver himself or another
fellow mechanic can hold the clutch down
for you while you make this adjustment
if you are working at this alone then
you will have to put in some type of
adjusting tool to make your job easier
to hold the pedal down while you go
underneath and make your adjustment